SOURCE: GradReports — Carnegie Mellon University student/alumni reviews
URL: https://www.gradreports.com/colleges/carnegie-mellon-university
TYPE: program_review
COLLECTED: 2026-06-09
SUMMARY_STATS: 76% of 256 students said the degree improved career prospects; 91% would recommend to others
---
[kfoor | Social Psychology | Grad year 2029 | Mar 19, 2026]
I am currently attending CMU as a graduate student, and it has been a positive experience so far. I feel supported by my department in both my academics and in my research, and the campus is filled with motivated undergrads and grad students. I am excited to go to school each day, and I would highly recommend this school's graduate programs.

[Penguin | Network Security | Grad year 2026 | Mar 12, 2026]
My review is that this college is very rigorous and will push you to your physical and mental limits. This college is known for making its students work long hours and the teachers know this and are very understanding as a result. The job prospects are not as good as they used to be because of the economic slow down.

[Lily | Biology | Grad year 2019 | Mar 11, 2026]
Carnegie Mellon was an academically intense environment that could sometimes feel overwhelming and competitive. While the culture was very rigorous and at times challenging, it ultimately taught me discipline, resilience, and a strong work ethic. I also had several memorable professors who were incredibly supportive mentors and made a meaningful impact on my overall experience.

[Z | Graphic Design | Grad year 2015 | Mar 11, 2026]
I attended the School of Design within Carnegie Mellon University. The School of Design has a great program split into multiple track options, with an introductory year to learn foundations applying to all tracks. I liked this system because it allowed myself and classmates to understand better how we wanted to tailor our next 3 years of education and get the most of our time there. The cost of the institution is high, and I just finished paying my student loans 10 years after graduating. I feel it was worth it to have access to great educators and companies that recruited intentionally from the school. I got my first job directly out of school because the company attended the yearly School of Design recruiting event.

[Nick L | Business Administration | Grad year 2021 | Mar 11, 2026]
It was a great college experience. I found the classroom to be the perfect size and thought the curriculum was extremely robust. I also felt that the campus culture was great and had a lot of clubs to offer. Lastly, the job opportunities was good with a strong alumni network

[Paige Brady | Cognitive Psychology | Grad year 2025 | Feb 10, 2026]
I would absolutely recommend Carnegie Mellon if you know exactly what you want to do and what you expect to get out of your education. There are resources, but no one goes out of the way to inform you perse. If you want to double-major, I would recommend that instead of the BXA program. It is a very prestigious and academic school, but they are not great with interdisciplinary or innovative students.

[emonroe123 | Data Analytics | Grad year 2024 | Feb 9, 2026]
CMU CFA doesn't have any department or program, even though they advertise one. Whenever I spoke with a faculty member, they were dumbfounded by the idea of art or even more confused about the idea of students having careers or jobs. I can't stress enough that the experience has zero ROI and provides no direction or foundation for a career. There were no resources or training or access to any technology. I would have never imagined making a life decision to pursue a career just to find myself in a program that had zero interest in my success.

[biobae | Biology | Grad year 2024 | Jan 14, 2026]
I enjoyed my time at CMU and found a lot of comfort in the smaller class sizes and campus as a whole. Starting at the university in 2020 during Covid, my experience does differ from many other alumni but my junior and senior years more accurately reflected the true social and academic environments. I think the university does need to improve their class selections and hold some of the professors to higher standards of teaching. The university also seemed to be less supportive towards Greek life and other social organizations, as opposed to other extracurricular activities.

[Jdeez | Chemical Engineering | Grad year 2016 | Dec 6, 2025]
CMU was pretty brutal, but opened the door to a nice career. I treasured my time there, mostly for the lifelong friends that I made while I was there. The classes were hard, but ultimately helped land me a job at a major company in my industry. The grind is worth it and the campus is dope.

[Eric Crosby | Art & Design | Grad year 2025 | Sep 22, 2025]
Absolutely ridiculous experience. The administration has only one motivation- take advantage of the student population. My student experience was abysmal and no one cared. The faculty don't show up for courses, there are no real classes, faculty don't grad assignments or give feedback, and students don't have any access to technology or facilities to work with. Reputations come and go and CMU is an example of a palace coasting on branding with little to no ROI for students.

[collintime | Art History | Grad year 2024 | Aug 14, 2025]
This school was one of the biggest disappointments of my life. It didn't prepare me for any form of a sustainable art practice, no technical rigor, no grounding in how the art world actually works, and no emphasis on building a body of work that could survive outside the classroom bubble. The so-called "career services" were nonexistent; there was no real network to plug into, no mentorship from working artists, and no guidance on how to navigate galleries, residencies, grants, or any kind of professional opportunities. Faculty seemed more interested in protecting their own reputation than challenging students to grow. Critiques were shallow, often more about personalities than substance, and there was zero follow-through to help you develop your work beyond a semester. The school operates in a vacuum, disconnected from the realities of making a living as an artist, leaving graduates stranded with debt, a degree that carries little weight, and no practical path forward.

[Tarafalcone | Art & Design | Grad year 2025 | Jun 27, 2025]
I attended the Carnegie Mellon School of Art hoping for a progressive, interdisciplinary, and supportive environment where creativity could thrive. Unfortunately, my experience was largely the opposite. While the university's reputation in computer science and robotics is world-renowned, the School of Art feels like an afterthought—underfunded, under-supported, and structurally disconnected from the innovation happening elsewhere on campus. Most significantly, the faculty went out of their way to embarrass me and interfere in my career post-graduation, blocking me from connections in NY and interfering in my attempt to get a PhD from MIT. The curriculum is inflexible and discourages true experimentation. Despite CMU's claims of fostering interdisciplinary exploration, I found it incredibly difficult to meaningfully engage with departments outside of art. Bureaucratic hurdles and a lack of collaboration between programs made it frustrating to pursue hybrid work that crossed into technology, design, or media studies—areas in which CMU is supposedly a leader. The culture within the school can feel toxic, with a strong emphasis on cynicism and competition. Many critiques felt performative and overly academic, focusing more on jargon than on meaningful artistic growth. The environment wasn't nurturing—it often felt like a space where students were expected to prove they belonged by being constantly critical, rather than supportive or constructive. There is no training in critique or any structure to the critique environment. Compared to other programs I explored (such as RISD or UCLA), CMU's School of Art lacks the infrastructure, community, and visionary leadership to truly support emerging artists. It felt like the program was coasting on the university's name without investing in the students or adapting to the needs of contemporary creative practice. It is basically a shapeless and empty program, but one that lasts 3 years! If you're a student who values mentorship, interdisciplinary access, or a healthy creative community, I would strongly urge you to look elsewhere.

[Portlandnative | Fine Arts | Grad year 2024 | May 2, 2025]
CMU was a waste of time. I received no education and no connections whatsoever by attending there. Three years of graduate work resulted in no career advancement whatsoever. It's hard to fathom how horrifying this really is. Going to school should in the very least result in some sort of opportunity. I did really well in the program but the degree just really doesn't have any value. I am genuinely shocked and saddened to learn I made a three year long mistake that has had no impact (at most a negative one) on my career.

[AndreaRes | Fine Arts | Grad year 2024 | Jan 13, 2025]
School of Fine Arts at CMU is really not worth it. Surprised the department is still even functioning at all. When I was there the IDEATE program started and it looks like in the long run the art program can be transformed into something more useful like that program. The faculty I had to work with and the facilities we had were really really dire. But once you move and sign up it's very difficult to consider a different program. However it was not worth it at all.

[CMUStudent | (degree not specified) | Grad year 2024 | Sep 27, 2024]
For $100,000 its not worth it. Half the time profs are ripping lectures from other universities. The course work is so time consuming it's incredibly detrimental to your metal health and usually feels more like trouble shooting than learning. It certainly sucks the passion out of the field, and life. A better education can be received else where, probably for less.

[John | Information Systems | Grad year 2015 | May 1, 2019]
Carnegie Mellon is a very academically challenging school. The social life and lack of school/life balance makes it even more challenging. But, five years into my career, I feel it prepared me for success in the workforce in every way possible. I have worked at top companies in Silicon Valley and been able to rise quickly thanks to the breadth of my skills. I compare myself to colleagues my age from other leading universities like Stanford and continue to feel I excel above them in many ways due to the work ethic CMU instilled in me. One of the biggest things I took away from CMU was learning how to learn - picking up a new skill, software language, etc. and being able to experiment and learn on my own. CMU also is a well respected name in the technology industry and you won't have trouble getting a job if it's on your resume. For current and prospective students, I would encourage you to get involved with the community of Pittsburgh and possibly in Greek life if you are struggling. Having some activities outside of school helped me in my later years of undergrad, just to destress. Pittsburgh also has some cool restaurants, shows, organizations etc if you venture off campus. Don't stay in the CMU bubble the whole time!

[anonymous | Fine Arts | Grad year 2004 | Jun 30, 2018]
Carnegie Mellon was a life-changer. I went to undergrad in Fine Arts and graduate school there in two very different fields and got an amazing. My professors were fantastic...I could call them not only teachers but friends by the end of the term. It's a well-rounded education and has a combination of technical and creative.

[MITReject | Mathematics | Grad year 2004 | May 13, 2018]
Unimpressive academically. Non-existent socially. No one's first choice school. No one's first choice city. Student body is lacking. It's just a research university. High level of assimilated international students. Most students are not experienced socially.
